# What is osskb-core-open-dataset

osskb-core-open-dataset, published under CC0 license, contains the fingerprints corresponding to the 2 million most used GitHub repositories, representing the core dataset of the Open Source Knowledge Base (OSSKB) which powers [osskb.org](#about-osskborg).

* Access osskb-core-open-dataset FTP server: ***ftp://osskb.st.foundation***
* Check stf-plagicheck [repository](https://github.com/Software-Transparency-Foundation/stf-plagicheck)

This open data set can be used along with stf-plagicheck to detect code similarities to open source software, at file and snippet level, generated by AI code assistants, providing to open source authors, projects and organizations a powerful tool to detect plagiarism. This combination of osskb-core-open-dataset and stf-plagicheck is also designed to support researchers in their investigations of the impact of LLM-generated code in open source license compliance.

## About osskb.org

osskb.org is a free of charge data service that provides open source detection capabilities and metadata enrichment with license information to open source tools, that consume the data through an open API.

These are the STF service key features and differentiators:
* Free of charge: osskb.org provides its service at no cost to ensure universal accessibility.
* Universal access: The service is accessible worldwide through a fully documented open API. It works regardless of programming language, architecture, or geography.
* Flexible: osskb.org integrates easily into multiple contexts, which makes it work with open source SCA local tools, centralized services with different architectures, as plug-ins for different tools like IDE plugins, build tools, code review tools, and pipeline jobs, orchestrated with different tools.
* Fast and efficient: Detecting open source software at both file and snippet levels is powered by a hash-based knowledge base, allowing osskb.org to deliver highly efficient matching.
* Privacy by design: Privacy is built into the core architecture of osskb.org. Neither STF nor SCANOSS sees your scanned code. No identification is required for tools or services to access osskb.org
* Vast and current: osskb.org is powered by Open Source Software Knowledge Base (OSSKB), which contains fingerprints of open source software collected and processed from close to 250 million URLs. OSSKB is continuously updated and curated. 
* No vendor lock-in: the service, osskb.org and the underlying knowledge base, OSSKB, are created, deployed, run and maintained using open source. The open API architecture ensures users remain unencumbered by proprietary dependencies. The fingerprints are created using open source algorithms. Even the knowledge base technology is open source, allowing anyone to create their own KB. 

Learn more about [osskb.org](https://www.softwaretransparency.org/osskb) or [contact](https://www.softwaretransparency.org/contact) STF.
